# Movie-Recommender-System
 
A movie recommendation system, or a movie recommender system, is an ML-based approach to filtering or predicting the users’ film preferences based on their past choices and behavior.

## Filtration Strategies for Movie Recommendation Systems
Movie recommendation systems use a set of different filtration strategies and algorithms to help users find the most relevant films. The most popular categories of the ML algorithms used for movie recommendations include content-based filtering and collaborative filtering systems.

### Content-Based Filtering
A filtration strategy for movie recommendation systems, which uses the data provided about the items (movies). This data plays a crucial role here and is extracted from only one user. An ML algorithm used for this strategy recommends motion pictures that are similar to the user’s preferences in the past. Therefore, the similarity in content-based filtering is generated by the data about the past film selections and likes by only one user.

### Collaborative Filtering
As the name suggests, this filtering strategy is based on the combination of the relevant user’s and other users’ behaviors. The system compares and contrasts these behaviors for the most optimal results. It’s a collaboration of the multiple users’ film preferences and behaviors.

## Working Model

Live : https://movie-recommender-xahinds2.herokuapp.com/

## How this Works ?

1. Dataset : ML systems need data that has been imported from [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/tmdb/tmdb-movie-metadata).
2. Strategy : Implemented content-based filtering strategy.
3. Analysis and Data Preprocessing : Based on our model features like keywords, cast, genres & director are preprocessed for maximum efficiency.
4. Model : Cosine similarity is a metric used to measure how similar two items are. Mathematically, it measures the cosine of the angle between two vectors projected in a multi-dimensional space. The output value ranges from 0–1.
